---
process_name: Rigid Adhesives
index_letter: R
process_class: Joining
process_subclass: 'Joining: Adhesives'
process_sub_subclass: ''
primary_photo_path: /photos/2002_rigid_adhesives.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
---

Structural adhesives are those with a mechanical function, though they may have a secondary role as a sealant. They are now used in every industrial sector. Some are flexible (see record for Flexible Adhesives) but most are rigid, giving a stiff bond. Within each group, it is usual to use a classification based on chemistry.

Epoxies and epoxy-phenolics are thermosetting adhesives with high tensile strengths (up to 45 MPa) and low peel strengths (1.8 kg/mm). They are resistant to solvents, acids, bases and salts. Nylon-epoxies have the highest strengths and are used primarily to bond aluminum, magnesium and steel. Epoxy-phenolics retain their strength up to 150 - 250 °C and are used to bond metals, glass and phenolic resins. Most are two-part systems, curing at temperatures between 20 - 175 °C, depending on grade. They are used in relatively small quantities because of price: but, with imide-based adhesives, they dominate the high-performance adhesives markets. They give good adhesion to a wide range of substrates, with low shrinkage and good mechanical properties from -250 to +250 °C.

Acrylic adhesives are two-part systems that form a strong, impact resistant bonding layer when mixed or activated by UV radiation. They are durable, tough, water resistant, optically clear, and able to bond a wide range of materials. They are most used for wood-to-metal bonds.
Cyanoacrylate adhesives are familiar as 'super glue'. They are single part systems that cure in seconds when exposed to damp air, to give a strong, rather brittle bond. They bond to practically anything, and do so 'instantly' requiring no heat or clamping.

Phenolic adhesives are as old as Bakelite (1905), which they resemble chemically. Phenolics are sometimes blended with epoxies and neoprenes. They have high strength, good water resistance and heat resistance, and are flame retardant.
Imide-based adhesives (dismaleimides, BMI and polyimides, PI), like epoxies, are widely used as a matrix in fiber-reinforced polymers. They have better elevated temperature performance than most other organic adhesives. Used to bond ceramics and metals. They have excellent dielectric properties (hence their used in radomes); BMIs can be used at temperatures as low as -250 °C and as high as 230 °C; PIs up to 300°C.


