---
process_name: Power Beam
index_letter: P
process_class: Joining
process_subclass: 'Joining: Thermal Welding'
process_sub_subclass: 'Joining: Thermal Welding: Metals'
primary_photo_path: /photos/2017_power_beam.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
---

In ELECTRON BEAM WELDING, melting is produced by the heat of a focused beam high velocity electrons. The kinetic energy of the electrons is converted into heat when it hits the work piece, which has to be contained in a vacuum chamber, and it must be a conductor. No filler metal is used. The process is more energy-efficient than laser-beam welding, allowing higher power densities and the ability to weld thicker plates. In LASER BEAM WELDING, the heat source is a narrow beam of coherent monochromatic light. The process is more precise than e-beam welding and takes place in air, allowing greater design freedom, but the penetration depth is less (maximum 20mm in metals). Shielding gas is blown though a surrounding nozzle to protect the weld. Again, no filler metal is used. It is possible to laser weld thin, semi-transparent or opaque polymer films by simply scanning the beam across them, melting them right through, but this is not the best way to use lasers. The trick in welding polymers is to arrange that the beam is absorbed where it is most useful - at the joint interface. For transparent polymers this can be achieved by spraying a thin film of IR or UV-absorbing dye, invisible to the human eye, onto the surface where the weld is wanted; the laser beam passes through the transparent upper sheet (which can be thick - up to 10mm) without much energy loss. But when it hits the dye of the interface it is strongly absorbed, melting the polymer there and creating a weld whilst leaving most of the rest of the material cold. Scanning the beam or tracking the work piece gives a line weld up to 10mm wide.