---
process_name: Selective laser sintering, metals and ceramics
index_letter: S
process_class: Shaping
process_subclass: 'Shaping: Additive Manufacturing'
process_sub_subclass: 'Shaping: Additive Manufacturing: Powder Bed Fusion'
primary_photo_path: /photos/2033_selective_laser_sintering.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
---

SELECTIVE LASER SINTERING (SLS) for metals and ceramics uses a clever trick to create fully-dense parts with good precision, using a similar method to Selective Laser Melting (SLM). The uppermost layer of a bed of powdered material is loosely bonded through slight sintering by a scanned laser beam. A new layer of powder is then swept across the surface by a wiper or milling head and the process repeated, building the model layer by layer. Originally, the metal or ceramic powder would be coated in a polymer binder before being placed in an oven to vaporize the binder and sinter the remaining powder. When complete the very porous model is infiltrated with liquid bronze, which wets and is drawn into the porosity. This gives a fully dense product, with a complex external and internal shape (such as cooling channels) that can be used as a die for injection molding and die casting. There is now a variant of this process, Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS), which uses a higher energy laser to directly melt the outside of the particles during formation to sinter in-situ without the use of a polymer binder. Parts produced in this way may also be infiltrated if a full density is required. Machining is often used after manufacture to reduce the surface roughness. As with other additive manufacturing processes, a CAD solid model is used to create an STL file that drives the scanning system.

The process is also known as Direct Metal Laser Sintering (DMLS) or in-situ shelling.