---
process_name: Investment casting
index_letter: I
process_class: Shaping
process_subclass: 'Shaping: Casting'
process_sub_subclass: 'Shaping: Casting: Investment Casting'
primary_photo_path: /photos/2042_investment_casting.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
places:
  - Jewelry Studio (https://hop.dartmouth.edu/online/jewelry)
relations:
  - materials:
  - processes:
  - products:
---

If you have gold fillings (or more elaborate metal work) in your mouth, be thankful for this process - it was used to make them. The lost wax process - the old name for INVESTMENT CASTING - has been practiced for at least three thousand years; sophisticated jewelry, ornaments and icon were being made in Egypt and Greece well before 1500BC. In investment casting, wax patterns are made and assembled (if small) into a tree with feeding and gating systems. The assembled pattern is dipped into refractory slurry, then covered in refractory stucco and allowed to dry. The procedure is repeated a number of times until about 8 layers have built up, creating a ceramic investment shell. The wax is then melted out and the ceramic shell fired before the molten metal is cast. Gravity die casting is adequate for simple shapes, but air pressure, vacuum or centrifugal pressure is needed to give complete filling of the mold when complex, thin sections are involved. The mold is broken up to remove the castings. The process is suitable for most metals of melting temperatures below 2200 C. Because the wax pattern is melted out, the shape can be very complex, with contours, undercuts, bosses, and recesses. For making hollow shapes, this process is very sophisticated: all large bronze statues are hollow, and they are made by an elaboration of this process.