---
process_name: Sand casting
index_letter: S
process_class: Shaping
process_subclass: 'Shaping: Casting'
process_sub_subclass: 'Shaping: Casting: Sand Casting'
primary_photo_path: /photos/2045_sand_casting.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
  - materials:
  - processes:
  - products:
---


SAND CASTING probably started on beaches -- every child knows how easy it is to make sand castles. Add a binder and much more complex shapes become possible. And sand is a refractory; even iron can be cast in it. In GREEN SAND CASTING, a mixture of sand and clay is compacted in the split mold around a pattern that has the shape of the desired casting. The pattern is removed to leave the cavity in which the metal is poured. Cheap wooden patterns, with gates and risers attached, are used when the batch size is small and the process is manual, but this is slow and labor intensive. Automated systems use aluminum patterns and automated compaction. The sand mold is referred to as 'green' when it is used in a moist condition. Dry sand molds are stronger and more rigid, and thus are used in making large heavy castings.

In CO2 /SILICATE SAND CASTING, a mixture of sand and sodium silicate binder is packed around a pattern as before and flooded with CO2 to seal the sodium silicate gel. The mold is, in principle, reusable, but deteriorates quickly. In EVAPORATIVE SAND CASTING, the pattern is made from polystyrene foam, and is first coated with a refractory coating and then embedded in dry, unbonded sand. When molten metal is poured into the mold, the polystyrene pattern vaporizes. Very complex shapes of undercuts at re-entrant angles are feasible without the use of cores. In SHELL CASTING, a mixture of fine-grained sand and thermosetting resin is applied to a heated metal pattern (aluminum or cast iron) and cured to form a shell. Two matching shells are then joined to form a complete mold which is then placed in a frame packed with sand. The process gives good surface finish and better dimensionality than conventional sand casting.
