---
process_name: Polymer extrusion
index_letter: P
process_class: Shaping
process_subclass: 'Shaping: Molding'
process_sub_subclass: 'Shaping: Molding: Thermoplastic Molding'
primary_photo_path: /photos/2081_polymer_excrusion.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
  - materials:
  - processes:
  - products:
---

POLYMER EXTRUSION is the work-horse of the polymer shaping industry, producing semi-finished products such as rod, tube, sheet, film and other prismatic sections in huge quantities. The raw materials as powder granules or pellets are fed into a barrel with one or more rotating screws in a heating chamber and the resulting melt is forced through a shaped die orifice. The process blends, compounds, homogenizes and extrudes the polymer mix at temperatures between 135 and 370 C. The extrudate is cooled as it leaves the die, using air or water cooling; it may subsequently be 'drawn down' to a smaller cross-section. Variations of the process include film blowing, extrusion blow molding and filament forming. The process is used to coat wire, which can be achieved at high speeds. Extrusion is also used as a pre-process other molding processes such as injection molding, producing polymer blends in pellet form.
The process has the advantage of relatively low tooling costs, though capital costs are high and the output usually requires further processing, varying from simply cutting to size to remelting and injection molding.
Die design is complicated by 'die swell' -- the expansion of the section after it leaves the die, caused by the visco-elastic nature of flow in long-chain polymers. Because of this the tolerances are not as tight as for pressure molding processes, though this can be improved by running the extruded section through a second "sizing" die.