---
process_name: Carburizing and carbonitriding
index_letter: C
process_class: Surface Treatment
process_subclass: 'Surface Treatment: Heat Treatment'
process_sub_subclass: ''
primary_photo_path: /photos/2091_carburizing_carbonitriding.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
  - materials:
  - processes:
  - products:
---

In CARBURISING, additional carbon is diffused into the surface of a low-carbon steel to give a high-carbon surface layer. When this is quenched, the layer transforms to a hard, brittle, martensite, which can subsequently be tempered to obtain the required balance of hardness and toughness. There are three broad classes of carburizing equipment; all require temperatures of about 900 C. The first uses a powder pack that releases carbon monoxide (CO); this decomposes on the surface of the steel to give atomic carbon and CO2. It is best for small parts. The second uses a fused salt bath containing sodium cyanide (NaCN>25%), barium chloride, sodium chloride and accelerators; it is very versatile and has a low capital cost. The last uses gas - methane, butane or pentane - as the source of carbon in a special muffle furnace that allows the gas to flow freely round the parts to be carburized; it lends itself to large-quantity production.


CARBO-NITRIDING is a variant of gas carburizing in which ammonia (NH3) is added to the carburizing gas. Nitrogen, released from the ammonia, and carbon from the carburizing gas, diffuse into the component at the same time, precipitating nitrides as well as increasing the surface carbon content. It generally requires a lower temperature and shorter time than plain carburizing. The process produces a thinner layer, but one that retains its hardness to higher temperatures.


Both processes give components with hard, wear resistant surfaces on a tough, ductile core. Carburizing gives better impact resistance than carbo-nitriding, but it causes more distortion and is slower, making it more expensive.