---
process_name: Etching
index_letter: E
process_class: Surface Treatment
process_subclass: 'Surface Treatment: Polishing_Etching_Working_Texturing'
process_sub_subclass: ''
primary_photo_path: /photos/2106_etching.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
---

There are three basic processes for etching. CHEMICAL ETCHING, a method that is widely used to decorate to glass, metal and polymer objects. The areas or patterns to be etched are exposed to an acid; the areas that are not to be etched are protected with a wax resist. Glass used to be etched by hydrofluoric acid, a particularly nasty chemical that gives off poisonous fumes; today this has largely been replaced by proprietary etch-gels, by sand etching or by engraving with a diamond tool. Copper, zinc, nickel and steel are etched in various combinations of sulfuric, nitric and hydrochloric acids. These, too, create environmental problems. SAND ETCHING makes use of a jet of angular sand particles in a pressurized gas stream to erode the surface where it is not protected by a mask. The rate of etching and the fineness of the finish depend on the air pressure and sand particles size. The method also works well with polymers. ELECTRO-ETCHING is a non-toxic way of etching of metals. Here the acid bath is replaced by one of copper sulfate (for etching copper) or zinc sulfate (for etching zinc) that never has to be changed. The object, protected by wax resists where necessary, is made the anode (+) of an electro-polishing bath, cutting into the areas of surface not protected by the resist.

