---
process_name: Polymer powder coating
index_letter: P
process_class: Surface Treatment
process_subclass: 'Surface Treatment: Surface Coating'
process_sub_subclass: ''
primary_photo_path: /photos/2114_polymer_powder_coating.png
video_uri:
pdf_title:
pdf_path:
eperiments:
relations:
---

ELECTROSTATIC POWDER COATING is an efficient, widely used process for applying decorative and protective finishes to metallic or conducting components. The powder is a mixture of finely ground pigment and resin that is sprayed through a negatively charged nozzle onto a surface to be coated. The charged powder particles adhere to the surface of the electrically grounded component. The charge difference attracts the powder to the component at places where the powder layer (which is insulating) is thinnest, building up a uniform layer and minimizing powder loss. The component is subsequently heated to fuse the layer into a smooth coating in a curing oven. The result is a uniform, durable coating of high quality and attractive finish. Powder coating is the fastest growing finishing technology in North America, representing over 10% of all industrial finishing. In polymer flame coating, a thermoplastic in powder form (80-200 μm) is fed from a hopper into a gas-air flame that melts the powder and propels it onto the surface to be coated. The process is versatile, can be mechanized or operated manually, and can build up coatings as thick as 1 mm. A wide range of thermoplastic powders can be used and the process is cheap. The disadvantages: line-of-sight deposition, and surface finish that is inferior to other processes.


In FLUIDISED BED COATING the component, heated to 200 - 400 C, is immersed for 1 to 10 seconds in a tank containing coating powder, fluidized by a stream of air at 0.1 - 0.5 atmospheres. The hot component melts the particles, which adhere to it, forming a thick coating with excellent adhesion.


In ELECTROSTATIC BED COATING the bed is similar but the air stream is electrically charged as it enters the bed. The ionized air charges the particles as they move upward, forming a cloud of charged particles. The grounded component is covered by the charged particles as it enters the chamber. No preheating of the component is required but a subsequent hot curing is necessary. The process is particularly suitable for coating small objects with simple geometries.